>> Kyle Simpson: And
of course we could do text to HTML and
literally type out some HTML
stream right here if we wanted to.
That thing gonna be a very
effective way of doing it.
You might wonder, well to serve up some
files, could we, like, use file streams.
I mean, we learned about file
streams earlier in the course, and
now we know we have a response stream.
So what if I were to open up read
stream to an each HTML file, and
then pipe that read stream directly
to my response writable stream, and
then just send it right on up?
And it's true that the content would
make its way to your web browser.
But what's missing there is that you
wouldn't have all of the important stuff
that your static file server
is gonna take care of.
Which is you wouldn't have a content
type that had been discovered.
You wouldn't have the content length.
It wouldn't have handled any content
encoding or chunking if it was doing any
of [INAUDIBLE] compression, none of
that would have been handled for you.
And as soon as you start trying
to implement all of that stuff,
you're gonna realize very quickly, no,
I just want to use somebody else's file
server, that's already handled
all of that mess for me.
So that's why we're going
to use node static alias.
I want you to open up, if you'll
notice in the directory that we're in,
I've already given you a web
directory with some files in it, and
we're going to open up index.HTML.
This is our EX5 exercise,
we're gonna be using this as for
both exercise five and
six as our little page.
And there's a couple of other HTML
files in here if you wanted to look at
the about or whatever.
Anyway, so what we're gonna be
doing is serving up these HTML and
JavaScript files to the browser
thru our node instance.
To do that we're gonna set
ourselves up a static file server.
So I've already started up
our static file server here.
This is our node staticAlias.Server,
we give it a path which is going to
be essentially the document route.
So unless you change the configuration,
it will never allow a relative access of
any file outside of that document route.
So WEB_PATH here is defined
as our web directory,
which means nobody will ever be able to
make some kinda malicious HTTP request and
go get some other file off of
our servers file system, okay?
So we're gonna use web
path as our doc route.
I've set it up as a very short
100 milliseconds caching.
Here's what gets sent as the server name.
And the important part here is that
we wanna set up some routes to
determine what our incoming URLs,
what files those might map to.
Some of them they're gonna map directly,
and
some of them we're gonna set
up some virtual aliases for.
I want for our web page for us to be able
to say something like slash about without
having to have the .html part on there or
have a slightly nicer nicer looking URL.
So we're gonna set ourselves up
with a bit of an alias for this.
Now I could type this stuff out,
and you could type this stuff out.
But I think it's gonna be much
less prone for us to make mistakes
rather that we should just do some copying
and pasting from out solution file.
So I'm gonna recommend you do what I do
here, which is we're gonna go look in our
solution file for
these regular expressions.
I'm just gonna pull the first
clause from our alias list over.
And then explain how this one works.
And it's not too complex.
I just don't wanna fat finger something.
And then be debugging regular
expressions for the next five minutes.
So basically what I'm saying here
in this regular expression is that,
if the URL,
which does not include the HTTP part.
It only includes everything from
the slash and the rest of the path.
I'm saying,
if it has a slash at the beginning, and
then either it has the word index or
nothing.
So it might just be slash or
it might say slash index,
if either one of those is true and
then optionally, if it's followed by some
past separator like URL, question mark or
the hash symbol or whatever.
And that's optional, or
just the end of the string.
So in other words, if we just have index
all by itself without anything else on it
then we want to serve
up the index.html file.
So let's try just that alias.
And by the way the force here
tells us that if that matches then
it has to be able to find index.html or
it's got to throw a 404.
So in other words it doesn't fall
through any other alias routes.
>> Kyle Simpson: So we're gonna use
the file server that we've set up and
we're gonna set up other
routes in a moment.
We're gonna use the file server
down here in our handle request.
Let's get rid of all of this code
that we were writing before.
And let's just delegate each
incoming request to the file server.
So let's say fileServer.serve(req,res).
And so we tell it, hey file server you
handle this particular incoming request.
So I'm gonna stop my server and
start it up again.
Come over here to the browser,
take off the slash hello,
and now you'll see that we
are serving up this web page,
let me zoom in just a [INAUDIBLE].
So you can see it,
now I can't click on these links yet
because we haven't set up the other
routes to handle that but
we are at least able to serve
up this index html five.
This index HTML page
directly to the web browser.
And if we were to test just
to make sure that slash
index also serves up that same file.
>> Kyle Simpson: All right,
let's try to set up some other routes.
We wanna handle the about route.
So we're gonna come over here.
Actually, we wanna set up a route that
handles our JavaScript files being loaded.
So I'm gonna copy that one over.
>> Kyle Simpson: This is saying that,
if the incoming requests as /js and
then has anything else on it,
just serve it as is.
Don't do any rewriting of it,
just serve the absolute path for it.
So that should be able to
load our JavaScript files.
This one is the one that does
the more friendly URL rewriting.
>> Kyle Simpson: So I'm basically saying,
if there's any portion on this URL that
has words or numbers, followed by URL
separators on it, if any of that is true,
then just serve up exactly that
with .HTML attended to it.
So if it says slash about
serve up slash about .html.
>> Kyle Simpson: And then last thing
is that, because I didn't do a force on
that one,
that we're gonna fall through if you've
say something that a slash for
a page that doesn't exist,
then this sort of catch all here is
gonna serve up a friendly 404 page.
>> Kyle Simpson: Again, all of this work
that I'm doing here this is sort of like
framework like, like setting up
regular expressions and stuff,
this really literally It's just a series
of If statements in a four loop, right?
So we could have done all of this
stuff with our own If statements and
handle requests and serve up the files.
It's just slightly more declarative
to use this static alias server.
All right, let's try that.
That should have all of
our routing in place now.
Let's stop the server and restart it and
then come back over here and refresh.
And now, I should be able to click on
About and the About page comes up.
And then if I were to type
in something like /hello,
we should get a nice friendly
404 page served up to us.